native/intuitives_daw/windows/windows_portable_flash_drive.md, before:

# UPDATE
This functionality is now baked into the Windows installer, you can choose
the `Portable Flash Drive Install' component.  This document will remain to
explain how it works.

# Creating a portable Windows flash drive
This document describes how to create a portable flash drive for Windows PCs
that will persist all of your files and settings to the flash drive.

# Installation
- Download the Stargate Windows portable .exe file
- Place it on a flash drive, either on the root folder, or a subfolder
- In the same folder, create an empty text file called `_stargate_home`
- Optional: Copy your sample library to the same folder, in a subfolder called
  `samples`

# Recommendations
- Use a fast USB3 flash drive for best performance, although USB2 will still
  work
- Back up the flash drive regularly in case it is lost or broken

# Usage
You can use this flash drive, and optionally carry around a USB sound card
and/or MIDI hardware.  Plug in your hardware first, then the flash drive,
then launch the Stargate .exe file.  Stargate should recognize your flash
drive as the Stargate home folder.

Commit message:

feat: Remove stargate_engine and introduce new intlib core audio models and SFZ test data.

native/intuitives_daw/windows/windows_portable_flash_drive.md, after:

# UPDATE
This functionality is now baked into the Windows installer, you can choose
the `Portable Flash Drive Install' component.  This document will remain to
explain how it works.

# Creating a portable Windows flash drive
This document describes how to create a portable flash drive for Windows PCs
that will persist all of your files and settings to the flash drive.

# Installation
- Download the Intuitives Windows portable .exe file
- Place it on a flash drive, either on the root folder, or a subfolder
- In the same folder, create an empty text file called `_intuitives_home`
- Optional: Copy your sample library to the same folder, in a subfolder called
  `samples`

# Recommendations
- Use a fast USB3 flash drive for best performance, although USB2 will still
  work
- Back up the flash drive regularly in case it is lost or broken

# Usage
You can use this flash drive, and optionally carry around a USB sound card
and/or MIDI hardware.  Plug in your hardware first, then the flash drive,
then launch the Intuitives .exe file.  Intuitives should recognize your flash
drive as the Intuitives home folder.
