native/intuitives_daw/docs/troubleshooting/linux_install.md, before:

# Linux Installation Troubleshooting
This document describes all of the ways that Linux distros and package managers
make themselves user-unfriendly, and what you can do about it.  It is
unfortunate that releasing a desktop application that works on any Linux distro
requires such a long troubleshooting document, if you would like to see these
user experience issues fixed, submit bug reports to your Linux distro.  If you
discover additional steps required for your distro of choice, please submit a
pull request to update this document.

# AppImage
[See the AppImage troubleshooting doc](./appimage.md)

# Important Notes
## Pipewire
Pipewire is a new technology with many bugs.  Note that DAWs do not directly
interface with Pipewire, and by extension have no way to directly influence
the behavior of Pipewire.  Issues with Pipewire must be reported to the
Pipewire developers.

If you experience issues, try testing on a distro that does not use Pipewire.
If it works in the non-Pipewire distro, file bugs with Pipewire and your
distro (and if your priority is to actually make music, keep using the
non-Pipewire distro until Pipewire actually works for you).

Known issues:
- Pipewire resampling does not actually work most of the time, you will usually
  get sputtering sounds unless you use the same sample rate as the system,
  which is probably 48khz unless you changed it
- Too many audio inputs.  Pipewire defaults to 16 inputs, with no clear way to
  receive audio from them.  Recommend reducing input count to something much
  smaller, unless you actually intend to use them
- Sometimes causes constants 100% CPU on one core.  To confirm that this is
  pipewire and not Stargate, ensure that you are running Stargate 22.12.5 or
  later and run `ps -o pid,pcpu,comm -L  $(pgrep stargate-engine)` while you
  are having this issue.  If the thread with high CPU is simply called
  'stargate-engine' and not a proper thread name like `Worker 1` or
  `UI Monitor`, then it is very likely to be pipewire.

## Wayland
Stargate DAW has had a tremendous amount of work put into it to remove the
window manager from the equation (the single window unification), and by
extension mitigate Wayland problems to the greatest extent possible.  However,
at the time of this writing, Wayland still has stability issues on every
desktop environment I have tested on.  If you are having desktop environment
stability issues, please try running your desktop environment on good old
reliable X.Org Server.

## "bleeding edge" distros
Recent major releases of compilers, kernels, libc, lib\*, and other core system
software have bugs when they are new, just like any other software.  It's only
logical to expect problems when building on a shaky foundation that can add
bugs to the software that relies on it.  If you are using a bleeding edge
distro like Arch, Fedora and many others, and experience problems, try
something more stable like the latest Ubuntu LTS, using an old and stable
desktop environment.  If older distros are not an option because you are using
newer hardware, then report issues you are having to the appropriate upstream
project.

# deb distros
Debian, and it's derivatives like Ubuntu, MX Linux, Linux Mint, and many
others.

Note that `dpkg` is not a viable way to install any packages, because it has
no concept of dependency management.  Use `sudo apt install ./package-name.deb`
instead, which will install dependencies.  `dpkg` is a low level tool meant to
be used by other tools such as `apt`

## Ubuntu
You must enable the universe and multiverse repositories to get all of the
dependency packages.

```
sudo add-apt-repository universe
sudo add-apt-repository multiverse
```

# RPM distros
Fedora, and it's derivatives like CentOS, RHEL, Rocky, also OpenSUSE.

You will need to install the [RPM Fusion repos](https://rpmfusion.org/)
to get all of the recommended dependency packages.

Note that the `rpm` command is not a viable way to install packages, as it
cannot install dependencies.  Most distros use `dnf`:
```
sudo dnf install /path/to/stargate-*.rpm
```

## CentOS 8, including Stream
You will need to install `epel-release` and enable the `Power Tools` repo.
```
sudo dnf install epel-release
sudo dnf config-manager --set-enabled powertools
sudo dnf update
```

## CentOS Stream 9
As of December 2021, it seems they have not packaged many of the required
dependencies.  Maybe in the coming months it will be possible without adding
non-official repositories

## OpenSUSE
OpenSUSE expects all packages to be signed with a code signing cert that they
recognize, which we do not have.  So when `zypper` warns you about unsigned
code and asks you what to do, enter `i` for "ignore"

# Arch / PKGBUILD
[see this document](./arch_linux.md)

# Building from source code

- Is there already a pre-compiled package for your distro?  Does it work?
  If not, did you report that it does not work?
- There are instructions for how to do this, did you look for them?  Note that
  a DAW is a massively complex piece of software, and building it on
  every mainstream desktop platform (read: not just Linux) and CPU
  architecture requires an elaborate custom build system that will not be as
  simple as `./configure && make && make install`
- Are you using an officially supported distro like Fedora or Ubuntu?  If it
  works on the officially supported distro but not your distro, did you file
  a bug with your distro?
- Did you or or your distro modify any of the default, carefully selected
  and well tested compiler flags?  Are you aware that not all code can compile
  with all compiler flags (and this behavior is not a bug), and that
  compilers are loaded with bugs when using obscure optimization flags?  Are
  you aware that there are good reasons why most distros do not use -O3 by
  default, that it adds bugs and usually is not significantly faster, and could
  even be slower?
- Does your distro use a recent version of your compiler?  Are you aware that
  major releases of compilers tend to be buggy for at least the first 6-12
  months?  Can you compile it on something older, like GCC in the current
  (or better yet, previous) stable version of Debian?

Commit message:

feat: Remove stargate_engine and introduce new intlib core audio models and SFZ test data.

native/intuitives_daw/docs/troubleshooting/linux_install.md, after:

# Linux Installation Troubleshooting
This document describes all of the ways that Linux distros and package managers
make themselves user-unfriendly, and what you can do about it.  It is
unfortunate that releasing a desktop application that works on any Linux distro
requires such a long troubleshooting document, if you would like to see these
user experience issues fixed, submit bug reports to your Linux distro.  If you
discover additional steps required for your distro of choice, please submit a
pull request to update this document.

# AppImage
[See the AppImage troubleshooting doc](./appimage.md)

# Important Notes
## Pipewire
Pipewire is a new technology with many bugs.  Note that DAWs do not directly
interface with Pipewire, and by extension have no way to directly influence
the behavior of Pipewire.  Issues with Pipewire must be reported to the
Pipewire developers.

If you experience issues, try testing on a distro that does not use Pipewire.
If it works in the non-Pipewire distro, file bugs with Pipewire and your
distro (and if your priority is to actually make music, keep using the
non-Pipewire distro until Pipewire actually works for you).

Known issues:
- Pipewire resampling does not actually work most of the time, you will usually
  get sputtering sounds unless you use the same sample rate as the system,
  which is probably 48khz unless you changed it
- Too many audio inputs.  Pipewire defaults to 16 inputs, with no clear way to
  receive audio from them.  Recommend reducing input count to something much
  smaller, unless you actually intend to use them
- Sometimes causes constants 100% CPU on one core.  To confirm that this is
  pipewire and not Intuitives, ensure that you are running Intuitives 22.12.5 or
  later and run `ps -o pid,pcpu,comm -L  $(pgrep intuitives-engine)` while you
  are having this issue.  If the thread with high CPU is simply called
  'intuitives-engine' and not a proper thread name like `Worker 1` or
  `UI Monitor`, then it is very likely to be pipewire.

## Wayland
Intuitives DAW has had a tremendous amount of work put into it to remove the
window manager from the equation (the single window unification), and by
extension mitigate Wayland problems to the greatest extent possible.  However,
at the time of this writing, Wayland still has stability issues on every
desktop environment I have tested on.  If you are having desktop environment
stability issues, please try running your desktop environment on good old
reliable X.Org Server.

## "bleeding edge" distros
Recent major releases of compilers, kernels, libc, lib\*, and other core system
software have bugs when they are new, just like any other software.  It's only
logical to expect problems when building on a shaky foundation that can add
bugs to the software that relies on it.  If you are using a bleeding edge
distro like Arch, Fedora and many others, and experience problems, try
something more stable like the latest Ubuntu LTS, using an old and stable
desktop environment.  If older distros are not an option because you are using
newer hardware, then report issues you are having to the appropriate upstream
project.

# deb distros
Debian, and it's derivatives like Ubuntu, MX Linux, Linux Mint, and many
others.

Note that `dpkg` is not a viable way to install any packages, because it has
no concept of dependency management.  Use `sudo apt install ./package-name.deb`
instead, which will install dependencies.  `dpkg` is a low level tool meant to
be used by other tools such as `apt`

## Ubuntu
You must enable the universe and multiverse repositories to get all of the
dependency packages.

```
sudo add-apt-repository universe
sudo add-apt-repository multiverse
```

# RPM distros
Fedora, and it's derivatives like CentOS, RHEL, Rocky, also OpenSUSE.

You will need to install the [RPM Fusion repos](https://rpmfusion.org/)
to get all of the recommended dependency packages.

Note that the `rpm` command is not a viable way to install packages, as it
cannot install dependencies.  Most distros use `dnf`:
```
sudo dnf install /path/to/intuitives-*.rpm
```

## CentOS 8, including Stream
You will need to install `epel-release` and enable the `Power Tools` repo.
```
sudo dnf install epel-release
sudo dnf config-manager --set-enabled powertools
sudo dnf update
```

## CentOS Stream 9
As of December 2021, it seems they have not packaged many of the required
dependencies.  Maybe in the coming months it will be possible without adding
non-official repositories

## OpenSUSE
OpenSUSE expects all packages to be signed with a code signing cert that they
recognize, which we do not have.  So when `zypper` warns you about unsigned
code and asks you what to do, enter `i` for "ignore"

# Arch / PKGBUILD
[see this document](./arch_linux.md)

# Building from source code

- Is there already a pre-compiled package for your distro?  Does it work?
  If not, did you report that it does not work?
- There are instructions for how to do this, did you look for them?  Note that
  a DAW is a massively complex piece of software, and building it on
  every mainstream desktop platform (read: not just Linux) and CPU
  architecture requires an elaborate custom build system that will not be as
  simple as `./configure && make && make install`
- Are you using an officially supported distro like Fedora or Ubuntu?  If it
  works on the officially supported distro but not your distro, did you file
  a bug with your distro?
- Did you or or your distro modify any of the default, carefully selected
  and well tested compiler flags?  Are you aware that not all code can compile
  with all compiler flags (and this behavior is not a bug), and that
  compilers are loaded with bugs when using obscure optimization flags?  Are
  you aware that there are good reasons why most distros do not use -O3 by
  default, that it adds bugs and usually is not significantly faster, and could
  even be slower?
- Does your distro use a recent version of your compiler?  Are you aware that
  major releases of compilers tend to be buggy for at least the first 6-12
  months?  Can you compile it on something older, like GCC in the current
  (or better yet, previous) stable version of Debian?
