native/intuitives_daw/docs/troubleshooting/macos_install.md, before:

# MacOS Installation Troubleshooting
This document describes how to deal with various MacOS issues regarding
the installation of Stargate DAW.

# Basic installation
Double-click the .pkg file to open the install wizard.

# Issues
## "Unverified Developer"
Note that you may get a warning about unidentified/unverified developer.  This
is because presently we are not paying a yearly fee to be part of the Apple
Developer program.  To get around this, you can use Google to find instructions
[such as this](https://disable-gatekeeper.github.io)

Long story short:  Easiest way to disable Gatekeeper just for this application
is to drag+drop Stargate to /Applications, then open /Applications in Finder,
right-click-\>Open, Cancel, then right-click-\>Open again, then Open.  Recent
macOS versions require doing the right click + Open twice to show a button
offering to open it, older versions may only require one attempt.

## Unable to record the built-in microphone
At the moment, it will not be possible to request microphone access from
Stargate DAW, however, there is a workaround.  You can open a Terminal and
run Stargate DAW from the terminal, and grant the terminal access to the
microphone when prompted.  This is the command to run Stargate DAW from the
terminal after installing:
```
/Applications/Stargate\ DAW.app/Contents/MacOS/stargate
```

## Crashes on older, unsupported Intel Macs
We do our very best to support Stargate DAW on the earliest Intel Macs.
However, we do rely on various open source libraries that come from package
managers such as homebrew, pip and pkgsrc.  Sometimes, these libraries may
be compiled targetting a more recent CPU architecture, which results in
"illegal instruction" crashes on, for example, Core2 Macs that have installed
more recent macOS versions such as Catalina using unsupported installers.

We will attempt to address these problems as we discover them, but at some
point, supporting ancient Mac hardware will become untenable, even if
Stargate DAW is fast enough and capable of running on 2009-era hardware.

## Portable install mode
NOTE: It is recommended to use an exFAT formatted flash drive, as other formats
such as FAT32 do not support  UNIX permissions to set the executable bit,
and others are not compatible across all 3 major desktop platforms.

If you would like to install Stargate DAW for MacOS to a flash drive, or you
just want to store your projects and configurations next to the app bundle,
simply place the app bundle in the desired folder, and create a file called
`_stargate_home` next to it.  Note that the MacOS app bundle can be installed
alongside a Windows portable install and a Linux AppImage to create a
(nearly) universal DAW flash drive.

Commit message:

feat: Remove stargate_engine and introduce new intlib core audio models and SFZ test data.

native/intuitives_daw/docs/troubleshooting/macos_install.md, after:

# MacOS Installation Troubleshooting
This document describes how to deal with various MacOS issues regarding
the installation of Intuitives DAW.

# Basic installation
Double-click the .pkg file to open the install wizard.

# Issues
## "Unverified Developer"
Note that you may get a warning about unidentified/unverified developer.  This
is because presently we are not paying a yearly fee to be part of the Apple
Developer program.  To get around this, you can use Google to find instructions
[such as this](https://disable-gatekeeper.github.io)

Long story short:  Easiest way to disable Gatekeeper just for this application
is to drag+drop Intuitives to /Applications, then open /Applications in Finder,
right-click-\>Open, Cancel, then right-click-\>Open again, then Open.  Recent
macOS versions require doing the right click + Open twice to show a button
offering to open it, older versions may only require one attempt.

## Unable to record the built-in microphone
At the moment, it will not be possible to request microphone access from
Intuitives DAW, however, there is a workaround.  You can open a Terminal and
run Intuitives DAW from the terminal, and grant the terminal access to the
microphone when prompted.  This is the command to run Intuitives DAW from the
terminal after installing:
```
/Applications/Intuitives\ DAW.app/Contents/MacOS/intuitives
```

## Crashes on older, unsupported Intel Macs
We do our very best to support Intuitives DAW on the earliest Intel Macs.
However, we do rely on various open source libraries that come from package
managers such as homebrew, pip and pkgsrc.  Sometimes, these libraries may
be compiled targetting a more recent CPU architecture, which results in
"illegal instruction" crashes on, for example, Core2 Macs that have installed
more recent macOS versions such as Catalina using unsupported installers.

We will attempt to address these problems as we discover them, but at some
point, supporting ancient Mac hardware will become untenable, even if
Intuitives DAW is fast enough and capable of running on 2009-era hardware.

## Portable install mode
NOTE: It is recommended to use an exFAT formatted flash drive, as other formats
such as FAT32 do not support  UNIX permissions to set the executable bit,
and others are not compatible across all 3 major desktop platforms.

If you would like to install Intuitives DAW for MacOS to a flash drive, or you
just want to store your projects and configurations next to the app bundle,
simply place the app bundle in the desired folder, and create a file called
`_intuitives_home` next to it.  Note that the MacOS app bundle can be installed
alongside a Windows portable install and a Linux AppImage to create a
(nearly) universal DAW flash drive.
